# about this repo

## PR message
Title: 

This PR addresses various onboarding usability challenges for new statesmith users.
You can preview the new documentation here: https://emmby.github.io/StateSmith/

#### Documentation is consolidated onto GitHub Pages.
Previously, documentation was a mix
of GitHub Docs, Pages, and Wiki. This made it hard to find content, resulted in parts
of things being documented in the wiki and other parts in docs, etc. The Wiki was difficult
to maintain and Docs was not as flexible as Pages. 

Using Pages enabled us to customize, doing things like:
* add a navigation sidebar
* embed *.puml and generated *.svg files directly into the page
* embed the simulator directly into the page as an iframe

It also makes documentation much easier to maintain and update than the Wiki. Anyone can submit a documentation
update along with the rest of their PR. All docs are always in sync with the code.

#### Interactive, up to date examples

The examples in the documentation are generated by statesmith so they're always showing the latest code. By embedding
the simulator, we can also make them interactive.

#### Simplifed onboarding.

Statesmith is powerful. As a new user, it can be very challenging to figure out how to get started. The new ss.cli helps, but even so it's still hard to get started. There are a great many excellent examples, but it can be hard to find the right ones at the right times.

The new onboarding documentation builds on the simplification work we landed in 2024. Most examples require no configuration, and thus all the complexities of CSX are deferred until later in the tutorial.

Each section demonstrates a feature of statesmith with a clear, interactive example using the new simulator.

The advanced usage information is still available for power users or users with specific needs (eg. low memory usage for microcontrollers), and is hopefully easier to find.

#### A simplified, posix style build tool.
ss.cli is a powerful shell-like tool that is interactive driven first, and xxx second

we introduce an alternative tool that is less powerful, but more familiar to developers who commonly use build tooling. statesmith is intended to drop into any build system (Arduino IDE, GitHub actions, makefiles, ant, maven, node, etc.) and be easy to use from any shell. as such, it is non-interactive beyond the command line.

users can continue to use ss.cli for more advanced usage at any time.

#### A focus on integrating with familiar tools.
xxx
meet the users where they are. support popular package managers via github actions
github integration documentation.

#### Other notes

* Examples are embedded directly into the documentation.
* Documentation looks good in dark and light modes
* We talked about a logo at one point so I took a stab at making one. Lightbulbs are always 
  used to demo state machines, so it takes inspiration for that. It's a lightbulb that's transitioning 
  into code. It came out better than my forge ideas, but it's just one idea, i'm sure there are other good ones.





## TODO
* add dll examples
* add csx examples (same as dll?)
* homebrew support
* apt get support
* open the sidebar for the current section
* Add download links to sidebar
* Figure out best way to consolidate actions
* Don't generate pages if tests don't pass


## FUTURE WORK
* Make yED and drawio.svg examples for each statemachine_reference example.
  Make a dropdown that can select between plantuml/yed/drawio examples
* google analytics support to track broken pages
* Add a link to allow readers to file documentation feedback in the footer
* disable the old wiki once this is merged in
* add nuget to github publish actions
